# lab_site
Web project built for Dixon Optical Lab.

The lab_site project as a whole was a web development project written in Python and other frontend web development languages (i.e. HTML, CSS, JavaScript) using the Django Python framework to centralize data and streamline operations at the Dixon Optical Lab.

This project was built to implement an intranet web interface that was used at the optical lab to optimize and streamline various functions in lab operations such as inventory and production tracking, financial reporting, and metric analysis. This interface was meant to centralize and organize data from a contracted SQL database named Vision Star, and eliminate the plethora of Microsoft Access databases that were created for each individual function by predecessors. Python (and the Django framework for that matter) was the language of choice due to its simplicity, power, dynamic nature, and relatively quick development time.

This particular application is one of several I have personally written for the lab_site project, which consisted of over 20 applications written by a team of developers. This billing application was written to facilitate and streamline the procedures that were used to invoice customers on a monthly basis. Procedures used before the deployment of this application involved the use of 3 different Microsoft Access databases into which data from Vision Star was imported via text files and processed 3 separate times to compile different types of data and generate different documents. Even with all these steps, errors often occurred due to corrupted text files and manual adjustments that needed to be made on occasion, such as credits for customer accounts. This application harnessed the power of Python to directly query data from the SQL database without using text files as intermediaries, and process that data using the sophistication of Pandas data structures. This overhaul, therefore, minimized errors and data corruption while centralizing and facilitating the invoicing procedure.

This application cannot be run alone because it has many dependencies that are not included in this repository. For starters, this application was built in 2019 using a Python 3.5.5 interpreter that was extended with dist-packages. The extended packages used in this application, such as Reportlab and XlsxWriter, are more specialized and are usually not included in the Python standard library. In addition, this application utilizes entities (i.e. functions, classes, constants, databases, etc.) that were written by codevelopers and resided in other applications (i.e. project directories) that are not included in this repository. This repository only represents a snippet of my work on this project, since the entire project could not be uploaded due to files being lost, corrupted, or taken credit for by other developers.
